The last couple of videos we've had have been just a bunch of lecturing for me.
I know that's super boring.
Just one more lecture and we're going to start writing some code again.
So in this video we're going to go over the design of the event bus.
We're going to talk about how we can use an event bus to communicate events from one service over to
another.
As a reminder, we're going to try to build as much of as this stuff as possible from scratch rather
than using some off the shelf solution.
And that includes the event bus.
So we're going to build this event bus on our own.
We're going to build it using JavaScript and express it.
I want to give you a couple of notes on how this thing needs to work.
Okay.
So event buses.
The first thing to understand about them is that there are many different implementations available.
You might have heard of terms like Rabbit in Q, Kafka or Nets.
These are all different types of event buses.
They're open source projects.
You could download them and run them yourself, or you can get some kind of pre hosted provided solution.
The one common thing between these different event buses is that they're going to receive events and
then publish them out to listeners.
When we use the term events here, we're really talking about some piece of information.
There's no set structure of what a event has to look like.
It can be JSON, it can be raw bytes of data, it can be a string, it can be whatever you want to share
between your different services.
When we use the term listeners, we're talking about other services that want to listen to events that
are being emitted.
Now between these different implementations of, say, Revit and Q, Kafka, Gnats and many others that
exist out there, it turns out that there are many very small features available in these different
event buses that make some things a lot easier or a lot harder.
So in this larger application that we're going to work on in the second half of this course, I picked
a event bus that is really easy to get started with, extremely fast.
But there are some downsides to it as well, some things that are going to make our lives a little bit
more complicated.
So you just need to be aware that you cannot just pick one of these implementations off the shelf.
You kind of have to evaluate them and understand what they can really do for you.
Now once again, we are going to build our own event bus using EXPRESS.
It is not going to implement the vast, vast majority of features that a normal event bus has.
So ours is going to be incredibly simplistic, incredibly simple, not very useful outside of this one
single implementation.
But again, we're going to build this from scratch.
Just you have a really good idea of what is going on behind the scenes.
And yes, again, for our next application, we're going to work on the much larger one.
We are going to use a production grade event bus.
This is an event bus that is used in many, many very large deployments and projects.
So you're going to get some very practical experience with some real technology as well.
All right.
Let's talk about the express based event bus that you and I are going to put together.
Now, this really is a very simplistic implementation for event bus.
The reason we are doing such a simple implementation is just so you can see how this stuff kind of works
behind the scenes, and so you can very easily see the flow of data throughout our application.
So let me tell you about how this thing is going to work.
We are going to add in a new route to our post service and our common service.
We're also going to make sure that our query service has a very similar route as well.
Each of these routes are going to watch for a post request to a path of events.
We'll talk about the purpose of that in just a moment.
At some point in time inside our application, we're going to have our post service or Common Service
decide that it needs to emit an event.
Whenever a service needs to emit an event, it's going to make a post request off to this new event
bus that you and I are going to put together.
Again, this event bus right here is going to be a plane express application.
So essentially, we're really just doing a post request from one service to another.
In that post request, we're going to attach along some event data.
So it's going to be some object that represents this event right here.
This event, plus is going to receive this event.
It's going to take that event and make a series of post request with its.
So it's going to take all that event data and it's going to take that exact information and just send
it off to a post request to localhost 4000 events.
That would be our post service.
It's going to make an identical request off to localhost, 4001 slash events and same thing or localhost
4002 slash events.
So in all three of these post requests, it's going to send along this event data.
So in short, any time one of our services makes a post request over to event bus, event bus is just
going to take that exact information and throw it out to everything else that we have running inside
of our application.
Even the same service that emitted the event originally.
So that's it.
That's how simple our event bus is going to be.
Now, again, as we start to use some more production ready application or solutions here for the event
bus, you're going to see that there's a lot more to this implementation.
But at the end of the day, this is pretty much what is going on.
More or less we're throwing an event over to the event bus.
The event bus is just going to echo that event back over to all of our different services.
So now that we've got an idea of what's going on here, quick pause.
We're going to start building this event bus, which is going to be very simple, very straightforward
in the next video.